## Which version to use?

There's no breaking changes between the `v2.x` version. The only breaking is
`v2.1` which also is not working properly, so no use it.

**Use v2.0.x**

When you don't need support for `arrow functions` and `es6 default params`. This
version uses a RegExp expression to work.

**Use v2.2.x**

Only when you need a _basic_ support for `es6 features` like arrow functions.
This version uses a RegExp expression to work.

**Use v2.3.x**

When you want _full\*_ support for `arrow functions` and `es6 default params`.
Where this "full", means "almost full", because it has bugs. This version also
uses (`acorn.parse`) real parser to do the parsing.

**Use v3.x**

When you want to use different parser instead of the default `babylon.parse`, by
passing custom parse function to the `options.parse` option. **From this version
we require `node >= 4`**.

**Use v4.x**

When you want full customization and most stable support for old and modern
features. This version uses `babylon.parseExpression` for parsing and provides a
[Plugins API](#plugins-architecture). See the [Features](#features) section for
more info.

**Use v5.x**

It is basically the same as `v4`, but requires Node 6 & npm 5. Another is
boilerplate stuff.

**[back to top](#readme)**

## Notes

### Throws in one specific case

> _see: [issue #3](https://github.com/tunnckoCore/parse-function/issues/3) and
> [test/index.js#L229-L235](https://github.com/tunnckoCore/parse-function/blob/master/test/index.js#L229-L235)_

It may throw in one specific case, otherwise it won't throw, so you should relay
on the `result.isValid` for sure.

### Function named _"anonymous"_

> _see:
> [test/index.js#L319-L324](https://github.com/tunnckoCore/parse-function/blob/master/test/index.js#L319-L324)
> and [Result](#result) section_

If you pass a function which is named _"anonymous"_ the `result.name` will be
`'anonymous'`, but the `result.isAnonymous` will be `false` and `result.isNamed`
will be `true`, because in fact it's a named function.

### Real anonymous function

> _see:
> [test/index.js#L326-L331](https://github.com/tunnckoCore/parse-function/blob/master/test/index.js#L326-L331)
> and [Result](#result) section_

Only if you pass really an anonymous function you will get `result.name` equal
to `null`, `result.isAnonymous` equal to `true` and `result.isNamed` equal to
`false`.

**[back to top](#readme)**

### Plugins Architecture

> _see: the [.use](#use) method,
> [test/index.js#L305-L317](https://github.com/tunnckoCore/parse-function/blob/master/test/index.js#L305-L317)
> and
> [test/index.js#L396-L414](https://github.com/tunnckoCore/parse-function/blob/master/test/index.js#L396-L414)_

A more human description of the plugin mechanism. Plugins are **synchronous** -
no support and no need for **async** plugins here, but notice that you can do
that manually, because that exact architecture.

The first function that is passed to the [.use](#use) method is used for
extending the core API, for example adding a new method to the `app` instance.
That function is immediately invoked.

```js
const parseFunction = require('parse-function');
const app = parseFunction();

app.use((self) => {
  // self is same as `app`
  console.log(self.use);
  console.log(self.parse);
  console.log(self.define);

  self.define(self, 'foo', (bar) => bar + 1);
});

console.log(app.foo(2)); // => 3
```

On the other side, if you want to access the AST of the parser, you should
return a function from that plugin, which function is passed with
`(node, result)` signature.

This function is lazy plugin, it is called only when the [.parse](#parse) method
is called.

```js
const parseFunction = require('parse-function');
const app = parseFunction();

app.use((self) => {
  console.log('immediately called');

  return (node, result) => {
    console.log('called only when .parse is invoked');
    console.log(node);
    console.log(result);
  };
});
```

Where **1)** the `node` argument is an object - actual and real AST Node coming
from the parser and **2)** the `result` is an object too - the end
[Result](#result), on which you can add more properties if you want.

**[back to top](#readme)**

## API

<!-- docks-start -->

{%= include(process.cwd() + "/docs/src/plugins/props.md") %}
{%= include(process.cwd() + "/docs/src/utils.md") %}
{%= include(process.cwd() + "/docs/src/index.md") %}
{%= include(process.cwd() + "/docs/src/plugins/initial.md") %}
{%= include(process.cwd() + "/docs/src/plugins/body.md") %}
{%= include(process.cwd() + "/docs/src/plugins/params.md") %}

<!-- docks-end -->
