<!-- docks-start -->

## API

_Generated using [jest-runner-docs](https://ghub.now.sh/jest-runner-docs)._

### [koaBetterBody](./src/index.js#L36)

> Robust body parser for [koa][]@1, also works for `koa@2` (with deprecations).
Will also work for future `koa@3` with [koa-convert][].

**Signature**

```ts
function(options)
```

**Params**

- `options` **{object}** - see more on [options section](#options)
- `returns` **{GeneratorFunction}** - plugin for Koa



**Example**

```js
var koa = require('koa')
var body = require('koa-better-body')
var app = koa()

app
  .use(body())
  .use(function * () {
    console.log(this.request.body)    // if buffer or text
    console.log(this.request.files)   // if multipart or urlencoded
    console.log(this.request.fields)  // if json
  })
  .listen(8080, function () {
    console.log('koa server start listening on port 8080')
  })
```

<!-- docks-end -->

## Working with [koa-router][]

```js
'use strict';

var app = require('koa')();
var body = require('{%= name %}');
var router = require('koa-router')();

router.post('/upload', body(), function*(next) {
  console.log(this.request.files);
  console.log(this.request.fields);

  // there's no `.body` when `multipart`,
  // `urlencoded` or `json` request
  console.log(this.request.body);

  // print it to the API requester
  this.body = JSON.stringify(
    {
      fields: this.request.fields,
      files: this.request.files,
      body: this.request.body || null,
    },
    null,
    2,
  );

  yield next;
});

app.use(router.routes());
app.listen(4292);

var format = require('util').format;
var host = 'http://localhost:4292';
var cmd = 'curl -i %s/upload -F "source=@%s/.editorconfig"';

console.log('Try it out with below CURL for `{%= name %}` repository.');
console.log(format(cmd, host, __dirname));
```

## Options

Sane defaults. :sparkles:

Accepts JSON, [JSON API v1](http://jsonapi.org/), text, buffer, [csp-report](https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/csp-reports), multipart and urlencoded/form bodies. If you want to disallow accepting and parsing multipart body you should pass `multipart: false`. Most of the defaults you can see at [utils.defaultOptions and utils.defaultTypes](./utils.js). **All `options` are also been passed to [formidable][].IncomingForm!** Even you can pass IncomingForm instance to be able to handle the different formidable events.

- `fields` **{Boolean|String}**: Default `false`, which means it will set fields on `this.request.fields`. If you pass a string, for example `'foo'`, you will have fields on `this.request.foo`.
- `files` **{Boolean|String}**: Default `false`, which means it will set files on `this.request.files`. If you pass a string, for example `'bar'`, you will have files on `this.request.bar`.
- `multipart` **{Boolean}**: Default `true`. If you pass `false` it won't accept/parse multipart bodies.
- `textLimit` **{String}**: Default `'100kb'`. Passed to [bytes][].parse method.
- `formLimit` **{String}**: Default `'100kb'`. Passed to [bytes][].parse method.
- `urlencodedLimit` **{String}**: Default `'100kb'`. Alias of `opts.formLimit`.
- `jsonLimit` **{String}**: Default `'100kb'`. Passed to [bytes][].parse method.
- `bufferLimit` **{String}**: Default `'1mb'`. Passed to [bytes][].parse method.
- `jsonStrict` **{Boolean}**: Default `true`. When set to true, JSON parser will only accept arrays and objects.
- `detectJSON` **{Function}**: Custom JSON request detect function - `detectJSON(ctx)`.
- `strict` **{Boolean}**: Default `true`. Pass `false` if you want to allow parsing GET, DELETE and HEAD requests.
- `onerror` **{Function}**: Custom error handle, if throw an error, you can customize the response - `onerror(err, ctx)`.
- `extendTypes` **{Object}**: Default accepting types can find on [utils.defaultTypes function](./utils.js#L83-L104). Allowing you to extend what your app can accept. By default works for JSON, [JSON API v1](http://jsonapi.org/), multipart, text, urlencoded and [csp-report](https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/csp-reports).
- `IncomingForm` **{IncomingForm}**: Pass an instance of `formidable.IncomingForm` to be able to handle formidable events.
- `handler` **{GeneratorFunction}**: Works with `options.extendTypes.custom` to handle custom types of content-type - `handler(ctx, options, next)`. More info below.
- `querystring` **{Object}**: Querystring module to be used. By default builtin [`querystring`](https://nodejs.org/api/querystring.html). More info below.
- `qs` **{Object}**: Alias of `opts.querystring`. All `opts` are also passed to [qs][] or [querystring module](https://nodejs.org/api/querystring.html).
- `delimiter` **{String}**: Default is `&`. Delimiter of key/value pairs, passed to querystring lib
- `sep` **{String}**: alias of `opts.delimiter`
- `buffer` **{Boolean}**: Default `false`, pass `true` if you want to get body as buffer.

## Note about `options.extendTypes`

ExandTypes option gives you a flexible way to handle different content-types and modify the defaults which can be found [at utils.defaultTypes function](./utils.js#L83-L104). In addition you can pass combination of `options.extendTypes.custom` and `options.handler`. When the request has some of the "custom" content type, this middleware will call the `handler` **generator** function with `ctx, options, next`. You can see more at [issue #52](https://github.com/tunnckoCore/koa-better-body/issues/52).

For example manually handle such content types `foo/bar-x`, `text/quix`:

```js
const app = require('koa')()
const body = require('koa-better-body')

app.use(body({
  textLimit: '300kb'
  extendTypes: {
    custom: [
      'foo/bar-x',
      'text/quix'
    ]
  },
  handler: function * (ctx, opts) {
    // `ctx` is equal to `this` and `app`
    // `opts` is current options object
    // passed to `{%= name %}`
    ctx.body = yield this.request.text(opts.textLimit)
  }
}))
app.use(function * showBody () {
  // `this.body` is text
  console.log(this.body)
})
```

## Note about advanced `querystring` parsing

Because this middleware is fully based and integrated with [koa-body-parsers][], by default it uses Node's built-in module for that thing [querystring](https://nodejs.org/api/querystring.html). So if you have some issues with forms, think to add custom querystring module like [qs][] to `options.querystring` or `app.querystring`. Related to this is [issue #45](https://github.com/tunnckoCore/koa-better-body/issues/45).

**Example**

```js
const app = require('koa')()
const body = require('koa-better-body')

app.use(body({
  multipart: false
  querystring: require('qs')
}))
```

It's intentional that it's not included in the deps by default. In `v2` it was also working by passing it to `app.querystring`, because [koa-body-parsers][] works [that way (index.js#L53)](https://github.com/koajs/body-parsers/blob/master/index.js#L53).

## Note about `strict` mode

We are trying to follow standards. :cat2:

You can pass `strict:false`, but see [IETF HTTP/1.1 Message Semantics: Section 6.1](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-p2-semantics-19#section-6.1) to understand why we stay to _"strict mode"_ by default. GET, HEAD, and DELETE requests have no defined semantics for the request body, but this doesn't mean they may not be valid in certain use cases. Last two tests at [test/options.js](./test/options.js) are showing usage on non-strict and strict mode.
